# webpack-l

Learn Webpack 

- Created basic index.html file
- Created basic javascript file.
- If we try to use import/export in vanilla js files either it will not run nor it will throw error.
- Inorder to use that and for performance optimization we are use webpack.
- Install webpack packages.
- `npm i --save-dev webpack webpack-cli`
- Once done, change the script property inside package.json file.
```
"scripts": {
    "start": "webpack",
    "build": "webpack"
},
```
- After that, create a webpack confi file in root location and specify the entry point and output location
```
const path = require('path'); // no need to install. This package will be present by default in node_modules
module.exports = {
    entry: './src/index.js', // entry file name
    output: {
        filename: 'main.js', // output file name
        path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist') // output folder name
    }
}
```
- Run `npm start` or `npm run build` and check folder named `dist` will be created and inside that file named `main.js` will be created and minified by default.
- Now, even after installing webpack and configuring webpack import/export will not work. To check try running index.html in browser still it won't show the changes.
- We should configure html file in webpack inorder to support this.
- To configure html in webpack install a package named `html-loader`.
- `npm i --save-dev html-loader html-webpack-plugin`
- we need to add rules for only html files inside webpack config files.
### What is Loader ?
* webpack enables use of loaders to preprocess files.
* By default javascript files will be configured and processed in webpack. But to process other files (html/css/scss/svg) we need loaders to do that.

- After installing, add rules for the loaders and plugins added.
```
plugins: [
        new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
            template: './index.html' // to check main entry html file (to create template)
        })
    ],
    module: {
        rules: [
            {
                test: /\.html$\i/, // to check all html files
                use: ['html-loader']
            }
        ]
    }
```
- Once done, Run `npm start` or `npm run build` and check insider folder named `dist`. File named `index.html` will be created and if you the script tag, the source of script will be main.js file which is generated by webpack.
- Now run index.html which is inside dist folder. Everything will work fine.

## Mode
- While developing we do have different type of environments like dev, prod etc. We can configure the mode for webpack and based on that output folder will do the changes. If not mentioned, it will take 'production' by default.
- add property `mode: 'development'` inside webpack config file in main object.
- when mode set in development, files will not get minified inside dist folder.
- wehen mode set in production, files will get minified inside dist folder.

